---
layout: post
slug: "0001"
title: "MacOS Configurations  - (incomplete)"
---

# MacOS Configurations

Start with [Tabby](https://tabby.sh/)
------------------------------------
[https://tabby.sh/](https://tabby.sh/)

Configuring macOS for Optimal Development Workflow
==================================================

Setting up your macOS environment for development can be just as crucial as setting up your programming environment. A well-configured system can improve your productivity and make tasks more efficient. This blog post walks you through some essential configurations and tools for macOS, tailored for developers.

Disabling Automatic Updates
---------------------------

Automatic updates can disrupt your workflow. It's better to manage updates manually to ensure they don't conflict with essential applications. To disable automatic updates:

1.  Open `System Preferences`.
2.  Navigate to `Software Update`.
3.  Uncheck the options related to automatic updates.

Make the Library Folder Visible
-------------------------------

macOS hides the `~/Library` folder by default. However, you may need to access this folder for development tasks.

1.  Open `Finder`.
2.  With `Finder` in focus, press `Shift-Command-H` to go to your home folder.
3.  Press `Command-J` to bring up `View Options`.
4.  Check the box for "Show Library Folder."

Installing Compiler Tools
-------------------------

You'll often need compilers and other development tools. You have two options: installing Xcode or just the Command Line Tools.

### Without Xcode

If you don't require the full suite that comes with Xcode, install only the Command Line Tools:

```bash
xcode-select --install
```

### With Xcode

If you need the full Xcode package for iOS/Mac development or other specific tasks, download it from the App Store. After installation, open Xcode once to accept its end-user license agreement.

Setting Up Homebrew
-------------------

Homebrew is the go-to package manager for macOS. To install:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

After installation, perform post-installation steps as suggested by Homebrew. You can test your installation and environment with:

```bash
brew doctor
```

Update Homebrew to the latest version:

```bash
brew update
```

### Install Useful Packages

With Homebrew, install some packages that are often useful for development:

```bash
brew install zsh-completions ssh-copy-id wget
```

You can read more about each package with `brew info <package_name>`.

#### Activate Zsh Completions

To make your Zsh shell even more powerful, enable completions by adding the following to your `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
if type brew &>/dev/null; then
    FPATH=$(brew --prefix)/share/zsh-completions:$FPATH
    autoload -Uz compinit
    compinit
fi
```

Final Thoughts
--------------

Congratulations, you've just fine-tuned your macOS environment for an optimal development experience. Coupled with your Python development setup, you are now ready for some serious coding!
